
Reviewer #1:

Minor Corrections
=================

- Page one, lines 48-49. cure the split-infinitive by editing to read
  "... to identify quickly ..."

- Page two, lines 0-17 (the list of results):  item 2 destroys the
  parallelism.  Numbers 1, 3, 4 all have a presumed underlying problem
  that they are solving, and if they were contiguous to each other,
  one might get away with this structure of listing the complexity of
  an algorithm for an implied rather than specified problem.  But then
  2 states a complete problem.   Need to fix this somehow, possibly by
  moving 2 to the end.

- Page three, lines 19-21.  Just stating "it is easy to verify that"
  is insufficient in a journal article.  The authors should provide some
  quick intuition at least for the leftmost part of that inequality.

- Page three, lines 32-34.  The seemingly inconsistent statement that
  O(n + k_i log n) = O(n + k_i log k_i) needs to be explained to the reader.

- Page three, lines 45-46.  "By (2)" should be edited to read "By
  Definition (2)," Page three, lines 49-50.  Need to be precise.  Edit to
  read "...circular arc yield a halfspace with p on its boundary that
  does not contain q."

RESPONSE: All of the above corrections have been made and explanatory
text has been added where suggested.


- Page three, lines 51-52.  "The partitioning into 4 quadrants used
  int eh algorithm of Theorem 1 works ...."  How does it work?  Works
  for what? Is this *exactly* the same partitioning used earlier?  For
  the same purpose?

- Page four, lines 0-1, "An obvious generalization ...."  Didn't the last
  paragraph state that this was the same problem as the Tukey problem,
  or at least "this Tukey depth problem" not a particular generalization?
  Also, the writing here is problematic as one shouldn't separate a
  preposition from its object, so the "given a set of n circular arcs"
  phrase needs to go somewhere else than between the "of" and the
  "finding".  Later in this paragraph, "This is because the decision
  problem...."-- to what does "This" refer?  Could this sentence be
  rewritten to be more clear?

RESPONSE: Both of these come from the fact that we had not explained
properly that the underlying problem on circular arcs generated by
Tukey depth results in a set of arcs all of whose lengths are exactly
pi, whereas the generalized problem has arcs of arbitrary (and
different) lengths.  This has been explained more carefully in the
revised version.

- Page four, paragraph beginning with line 10.  "Since we can not hope
  to solve the problem for circular arcs" -- isn't the problem of
  finding the point containted in the largest number of arcs solvable,
  just not in the desired time complexity?

RESPONSE: We have modified the phrasing here to explain that the
problem can be solved in O(n log n) time using the sort-and-scan
algorithm but that, because of existing Omega(n log n) lower bounds
that hold when k is both very small (close to 1) and very large (close
to n) there can be no algorithm whose running time is O(n log k) or
O(n log (n-k)).

- Also, have you told the reader what else is known about this
  problem?  Also, "Let p_1, .... p_{2n} denote teh 2n endpoints of the
  intervals in I, in increasing order."  If we already *had* these
  points in increasing order, we would have already spent O(n log n)
  time to get there.  Should make the point that you are using this
  notation to represent the sorted order of the endpoints of the
  intervals, but in fact you never compute that sorted order.

RESPONSE: We have added a sentence stating that the notation
p_1,...,p_{2n} is for convenience only and that the algorithm never
actually sorts then endpoints.


- In the bottom sentence of this paragraph, you state that all the
  points contained in many intervals are clustered together.  Need to
  define what you mean by being clustered together.  Imagine if you will
  the following example where ( represents a left endpoing and )
  represents a right endpoint: (((((())))))()()()()()()((((((()))))))

  At first glance, it would seems that there are two disjoint intervals
  that are each contained within many other intervals.    It is really
  necessary to include some examples and/or figures that provide some
  intuition based on different potential values of k, r, and n, both
  here and on subsequent pages.  Note that there is only one figure and
  it is back on page 3.  No impediment to additional figures that will
  elucidate!'

RESPONSE: We have added a figure with an example illustrating Lemmas 1
and 2 with explanatory text in the caption.

- page 4, the paragraph beginning in line 37.  "We being by taking a
  regular sample ..."  More background informtion or pointers to
  background information needed!!  How easy is it to guarantee that any
  interval contains at most n/t points, for example.  What happens to
  the various expressions in this paragraph for differing values of k?
  
RESPONSE: The alternative to regular-sampling is discussed in Point 2
of the subsequent paragraph.  We have added a sentence stating that
the value of k has very little effect on the execution of the
algorithm except to bound the size of the final problem that is solved
by the sort-and-scan algorithm.

- page 5, these "issues" that arise need to be elucidated further.
  Certainly in 2), just citing reference 18 is not enough.  Need at
  least to "remind" the reader about the impact of taking random
  samples.  Also need to highlight again what happens for *different*
  values of k.
  
RESPONSE: These points have all been expanded upon and a figure has
been added illustrating the difference between sampling at regular
intervals and random sampling.

- page 5, Theorem 2.  The statement of the Theorem *must* say what $k$ is.

RESPONSE: The definition of $k$ has been added to the Theorem


- Page 5, bottom of page.  Need figures and/or references and/or intuition.

RESPONSE: A figure has been added that illustrates the mapping from
halfspheres to halfplanes

- Page 6 and top of page 7, have only skimmed this.  The authors need
  to provide more information than just citing references 5 and 9 and
  appendix A.  The point of having journal articles and not just
  conference papers is to provide more comprehensive and more accessible
  versions both of the results and of the context into which they come.

RESPONSE: An introductory paragraph has been added to point out that
the main goal of this Section is to illustrate the relationship
between the problem of computing tukey depth and the
MaximumFeasibleSubsystem (MFS) problem.  The two theorems of this
section are then just applications of this relationship using existing
algorithms for MFS.  We do not feel that it is worth describing the
details of these existing algorithms for MFS as they are (mostly)
theoretical in nature and the details of their implementation can be
found in Reference [6].  Practical algorithms for MFS are the topic of
the next section.


- Appendix A.  Need to start with a preamble and tell the reader where
  you are going.

RESPONSE: A short preamble has been added to remind the reader what is
being shown in this appendix.

Reviewer #2
==========

- The paper is well written, but in a computer science style which
  will be unusual for statisticians.

RESPONSE: The changes made in response to Reviewer 1's comments should
hopefully make the paper more accessible to statisticians with an
interest in algorithms for Tukey depth.

- Minor comment:  The authors might wish to specify the complexity
  status of the problem for the general case.

We have added (to the introduction) references to the NP-hardness and
APX-hardness for the problem of computing Tukey depth when the
dimension d is part of the input.  

